=head1 March 20, 1997

Applied patch from Hugo van der Sanden E<lt>hv@iii.co.ukE<gt> to
support NULL in the quote method.

Followed a suggestion by Vivek Khera to support a second parameter to
the quote method.

Updated the test suite because the mSQL-2.0B5 has new reserved words
and I did in fact use "time" as a column name :-(

=head1 December 21, 1996

Improved documentation about mSQL-2.

=head1 September 28, 1996

Fixed a completion buglet again: "select * from table where <TAB>"
resulted in table completion instead of field completion.

=head1 September 8, 1996

Fixed another completion buglet in pmsql (complete-table-or-field
chose to query an inexistant statement handle in some cases).

Msql::Statement now 'use strict' clean, except for the autoloader.

Added my recent posting about 'insert' closures to the FAQ.

Reformatted both Changes and FAQ (Hi, Doug!).

As I'm one of the privileged people getting prereleases of Msql2, I
have already added support for Msql2 into this release. Things are
still subject to change, so I cannot make any promises. I left all the
new features undocumented in case Bambi changes his mind about his
intentions.

Included the patch for the lost table bug.


=head1 August 28, 1996

Made Msql and Msql::Statement easier subclassable. Thanks to
jake@vivid.com (Jake Donham) for the idea.


=head1 July 29, 1996

Made t/msql.t more strict in the sense that it may now be run in
parallel.

Added a test that checks for the "lost table" phenomenon.

Assorted minor improvements to the test suite.


=head1 July 9, 1996

A few cleanups in the XS logic to reduce the code below 700 lines
again.

Added Msql->errmsg and Msql->quote (see man page)

Fixed display of control characters in pmsql.

Moved the ->as_string method into Msql/Statement.pm to make it
accessible from anywhere.

Improved test script to output query in more places in case of an
error.

=head1 July 1, 1996

pmsql: hostname were truncated at the first dot mostly.

pmsql: completion for drop table statement issued unnecessary warning.

Msql.xs eliminated warning from the cc compiler on solaris 5

Documented how to connect to a different than the default port in the
manpage.

Added gethostinfo, getserverinfo, and getprotoinfo as methods on the
database handle.

Added the admin API calls shutdown, creatdb, dropdb, reloadacls.

Internally all constants are implemented in the standard uppercase
subroutines way again. Lowercase is supported but not recommended. It
was not a good idea to allow lowercase for caonstants too. It helps
nobody and confuses others. But it's no big deal.  In the name of
efficiency, write CHAR_TYPE, INT_TYPE, etc. again!

Prepared a few things for msql 2.0, but don't support it yet, because
it is broken on my development platform. The tests though, they should
perform work for msql 2.0.


=head1 June 7, 1996

Improved pmsql's as_string method and documented it. Control
characters and backslashes are escaped now.

Improved the manpage wrt listfields. Added precanned reply to the FAQ.


=head1 June 1, 1996

Made all methods lowercase internally and ignore case to enable
backwards compatibility.

Added basic completion to the pmsql monitor.

Added a fetchhash method. Benchmark in the FAQ.


=head1 May 28, 1996

Added pmsql(1), version 1.14 or so, which integrates relshow as a
method. Deleted standalone relshow(1).

Added prototypes just to get rid of the warning (method prototypes are
ignored by perl 5.002 anyway).

Added an example of ListFields usage to msql.t.

Deleted the (anyway outcommented) Tie code in Msql.pm as it won't come
back for sure.


=head1 April 30, 1996

Added a relshow(1) clone to the distribution just to have a sample
program that actually does something.


=head1 March 15, 1996

Metadata access simplified: in array context a statement handle method
does not return an array reference but the array itself.

Non-selects now return 1 on success instead of a worthless statement
handle.

The outdated FAQ is not in the distribution anymore.

Fixed the manpages, so perl5.002's pod2man doesn't grok.

Added 7 tests to test the above mentioned changes.

Simplified Makefile.PL with VERSION_FROM. Needs perl5.002.


=head1 October 1, 1995

Fixed a serious bug. Since we do not store $db->{SOCK} and family
anymore, it's legal that the hash-entry doesn't exist. 1.02 returned
the not very helpful message "Couldn't read svp".


=head1 July 30, 1995

Fixed a few documentation bugs. Reintroduced -lmisc in Makefile.PL.
Introduced $Msql::QUIET, a variable to suppress error messages from
the msql daemon when $^W is true (i.e. when the -w switch is on)


=head1 July 8, 1995

Implemented a new interface that uses methods to access the object
attributes. The resulting version is a hermaphrodite that is fully
backwards compatible, but also implements the new interface. Future
versions will not support the old interface anymore. The reason for
the change is a greater flexibility and also greater efficiency.

Fixed a memory leak (Thanks to Dan McGuirk <mcguirk@indirect.com> for
the report)


=head1 June 4, 1995

Introduced the handling of NULL fields that comes with msql 1.0.6.
That should be a fully backwards compatible solution. (Thanks to Dirk
vanGulik <Dirk.vanGulik@jrc.it> for giving it a go)

IQuery is gone, it turned out to be of no use at all. FastQuery is
still there.

The Msql::Tie package has gone in a different file and is still
considered experimental. If you have an opinion about it, tell me, if
not, don't ever use this file.


=head1 April 22, 1995

Introduced masking of single ticks (') within the Insert method.


=head1 Feb 28, 1995

Connect(host, db) now connects to UNIX socket when hostname is the
null string. Did only so, if called as Connect() followed by
SelectDB(db).

Added a bench/ directory with two sample benchmarks.

$sth-{HOST}, $sth->{DATABASE}, and $sth->{SOCK} depreciated (will not
supported in future releases). Use their $dbh equivalent instead!


=head1 Feb 27, 1995

Fetching of metadata via tie() on demand with caching for TieQuery and
TieListFields implemeted. Turns out to be a performance PENALTY, as
the benefits of tie are eaten by the tie overhead. As a byproduct new
methods are available: $sth->fetchinternal(KEY), $dbh->FastQuery(),
$dbh->IQuery(), $dbh->FastListFields(). The performance gain is much
smaller than expected. Will have to be reevaluated with perl5.001. The
new functions are only important for testing purposes, esp. for the
implementation of the DBI switch.

Insert() now checks the field type instead of the input type when it
decides, if a value should be enclosed in ticks. Insert is faster now,
but will be much faster, I suppose, once closures are available in
perl.


=head1 Feb 13, 1995

$sth->{LENGTH} added.


=head1 About August 1994

First alpha release.
