The code in this directory is

Copyright (c) 1994,1995 Andreas Koenig <a.koenig@mind.de>

and may be used, copied and redistributed under the same terms as perl 
(see the files README, Copying and Artistic in the perl distribution).

The mSQL-Perl Adaptor
---------------------

libmsql.a library written by David Hughes <bambi@Bond.edu.au> that
implements an API between arbitrary client programs and the mSQL
database engine. You get that library and the database engine from

    ftp://Bond.edu.au/pub/Minerva/msql/msql-*.tar.gz

To use the adaptor you definitely have to install the database and the
library first.

Installing The Adaptor
----------------------

Unpack in any directory on your harddisk and run

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test

The latter will give you some instructions, if msqld is not running or
if a database "test" is not available. Rest assured, that no existing
data in this database will be overwritten.

If the tests finish with `ok', give it a try to

    make install

If anything fails, check the documentation of the ExtUtils::MakeMaker
module. Especially if you're facing problems with dynamic loading, set
up the environment variable PERL_DL_DEBUG to some value greater 0 to
get some more information from the DynaLoader.

There was a report, that the installation of msql did not cover the
installation of the libmisc.a library (seems to be relevant for NeXT
and Ultrix users only). If `make test' fails with `Undefined symbols:
_strdup', then you will have to install libmisc.a by hand, i.e. copy
it into /usr/local/Minerva/lib and start again from `perl
Makefile.PL'.

Documentation
-------------

Documentation is available in pod format within the file Msql.pm. You
can turn this file into a manpage or a html page with the pod2*
programs that come with the perl distribution.

Mailing list
------------

Announcements of new versions will be made on comp.lang.perl.announce
and on the mailing list devoted to the maintenance of the package:
subscribe to the list by sending mail to

    msqlperl-request@franz.ww.tu-berlin.de

with the word "subscribe" in the message field. It's a low-volume
mailing list.


...have fun,
andreas koenig <a.koenig@mind.de>


